A Quick Guide to Crowd Funding Based on the Case Studies of Tame (through Companisto) & Krautreporter (own platform)
How to Approach Funding

Not: where can I get the money from?

But: what combination/collaboration makes sense

e.g. public grants, what's the reasoning, what's their agenda, e.g. employing people (does that actually make sense for you and your project/company?)

Quick Overview of Types of Funding

Crowd Funding

Usually for products as opposed to start-ups
You have to be aware of taxing - crowd funding has a fixed rate for example that is higher in Germany
Benefits: community, money, PR, market valuation
Reward based funding

Money for free, gifts in return
Not a close relationship
People investing through this model want a prototype
You should think about if you can achieve a prototype for the money they give you
People want physical products
Crowd investing

People are giving money for a virtual share (they're not actually share holders)
They are looking for something meaningful
You should have a solid business plan
At some point they want huge profits
Usually for Start-Ups as opposed to products
One time commission
There are strings attached - annual financial numbers, and also more frequently other numbers (KPIs)
You have to be transparent
You have to be sending out reports that are super positive
If you don't have a report, you need a conference or press coverage
Crowd funding in the NGO space

People invest based on the impact a project has eg. betaplace
Crowd landing

Set project, set money
Pay back money over 5 yrs with 5% interest
Only one time commission
Venture Capitalists

nothing smaller than 500,000 - they want a return for their clients (they are investing on behalf of others): they're only interested in an annual return several hundred million dollars

e.g. Krautreporter: Said they did crowd funding but it was actually a subscription. This is not usually a project that is fit for crowd funding, people usually want something back

How to Start a Crowd Funding Campaign

You don't need a prototype but it helps
Have a fancy looking pitch deck
Have a clear roadmap in your deck
Need to convince the platform that you're interesting, you can achieve it with the fixed time and money, and that you have the right team
With your pitch deck you research the platforms, and then you apply and then you choose
Then there's a skype call or you're invited to be on the platform directly
Then come the legal issues
Planning Your Campaign

How long will the campaign take?

Too long is bad: the start and end are most important
You can prolong it if you have a way to advertise it (conference, or journal feature, big anniversary in your area etc)
Crowdfund in the winter, be aware of holidays and of big sports events etc.
4 - 6 months is a good time frame from contacting the platforms to starting your campaign
Start in Autumn (start date is up to the platform in the end)
Tips & tricks

Factor tax etc into your very first figure
Have donors lined up
Prepare mailing lists
Test which different e-mails work with different groups of friends before you send them out to others
20-40% of funding comes from your own circle, the rest from the platform
Have press coverage lined up in advance
Find out who is in the area
Meet them
Explain to them about your project
Press releases don't work by themselves
Make sure they have their report ready for the launch event
The launch event

Give people the feeling they're part of a big thing, they're betting on the right project. The main return on investment for a lot of this is: I was part of this from the beginning (imagine if you were part of investing in The Facebook)
Have good footage and pictures
Constantly be active on all your channels
Have an editorial calendar for the crowd funding at least for 2 weeks constantly, think about:

Which content do you share?
How do you push the content forward?
What is the story I'm pushing through?
Testimonials are really important!
The media scene

Give people the feeling that if they don't fund it right now, it won't happen. This is also the tactic for the end of the campaign.
During the campaign: one person for replying to questions constantly
You have to be professional and nice and also fast.
People who back you want to feel appreciated (You need to build that foundation)
One person talking to the press and being at events.
Don't talk with everyone, but be aware of the really important influencers (give me money, write about me, testimonials)
Be focussed during the campaign: big fish. Other people can come by your company for tours and talks afterwards.
Your priorities

Big fish
Then press (find the journalist, give them the feeling you know their work and appreciate it)
One big mail at the start but afterwards no standard templates to important people.
You will enter the valley of death (the period where nobody is funding)

The dynamics drop
There's nothing you can really do
Just live through it and continue
You need to prepare your team for this
Have 1-2 days off in the valley of death (not the e-mails guy)
Prepare everything for the last week
Meet up with journalists in this time
Redo the AB testing of mails
Re-connect or try to connect with the important people who are on the fence, connect with them 2 weeks before the campaign ends
The last week

*Play the immediacy card "we're so close! this is so big! It won't happen if you don't donate now!"

Calculating the Rewards for a Crowd Funding Campaign

The product
Platforms help you a lot with the pricing
There should be a reward on every step
You're always trying to push people far down to the big sums
Something super exclusive that can't be repeated and is for a small small circle
Make them feel like they are super important
Give top investors something they never forget. e.g. in a resort - this room is saved for you forever
Dinner is common but boring
A tour can be interesting - give them exclusive insights
Using Analytics

Look at what analytics the different platforms offer
Use bit.ly links for running analytics
You can track individuals who got funding for your campaign
You can get sentiment analysis
Facebook advertising can be useful for crowd funding: 20$ for the streams of the friends of your friends

If you can convince some well networked friends to push the ad as well, then that's huge access for only 200$
You can address just fans of your competitor

Adwords or Adsense from google
You can test queries
There are grants for NGOs (social impact 500$ budget per day, free calendar, emails etc.)
Google matches employee donations (lots of companies do that)
Involving the Media: Journalist & Social Media

Give them records
You're the biggest, you reached this amount the fastest etc.
You can be creative about your records - you set your own parameter, but it has to feel relevant for your backers
Crowdfunding is not interesting in itself anymore
Don't go to the most popular media, but the most relevant
Which newspapers are writing about the project you are solving?
Videos help a lot (not just the campaign one)
It's all about giving people a reason to share
Try to understand the filter algorithms on the platforms (Facebook prioritises video)
Focus on online media
Go to bloggers
They have an authentic community and have emotion
How to find bloggers: you should already know them
Send each journalist/influencer/blogger a short email (on top of/better than press release)
This is why its relevant for you
Why you should write about it
How we plan to continue
Think About Money

Really do your money research
Tax
Shipping
Paypal fees
Production costs
Time
For pledges, look at other similar campaigns that were already successful
In reports, be super positive
Tips&Tricks plus Q&A

There are different models of how much money you have to get funded for you to receive the money on the funding platform
You're checked up on before you get onto platforms like Kickstarter
It's about social impact, the community who support you then turn into your ambassadors
Do the fundraising in the first 24h: they're crucial and the end is also crucial
There is a tax benefit for big companies, so you should offer large packages on the platform as well as the small ones
Make a media plan and articles ahead of time
There is an indiegogo getting started guide and FAQ
The platforms take a huge percentage / fixed sum
Paypal blocks your account if you get more than X per day
2-3 projects are on a crowd investment platform at a time, but there are hundreds on Kickstarter (crowdfunding)
TRUST IS YOUR BIGGEST RESOURCE
It's magic for teams because it's all based on trust
Never do your own platform!
It has to be emotional and done on a human level
After the funding, factor in some time for the mails
If the crowd think it's not going well, more mails, less time to work on the project, downspiral
The first day is the most important - reach 10% of the objective in 24h to be ranked in google and viewed on the platform.
